---
title: "Release Notes"
---
## Apache Drill 0.7.0 Release Notes

Apache Drill 0.7.0, the third beta release for Drill, is designed to help
enthusiasts start working and experimenting with Drill. It also continues the
Drill monthly release cycle as we drive towards general availability.

This release is available as
[binary](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/drill/drill-0.7.0/apache-
drill-0.7.0.tar.gz) and
[source](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/drill/drill-0.7.0/apache-
drill-0.7.0-src.tar.gz) tarballs that are compiled against Apache Hadoop.
Drill has been tested against MapR, Cloudera, and Hortonworks Hadoop
distributions. There are associated build profiles and JIRAs that can help you
run Drill against your preferred distribution

### Apache Drill 0.7.0 Key Features

  * No more dependency on UDP/Multicast - Making it possible for Drill to work well in the following scenarios:

    * UDP multicast not enabled (as in EC2)

    * Cluster spans multiple subnets

    * Cluster has multihome configuration

  * New functions to natively work with nested data - KVGen and Flatten 

  * Support for Hive 0.13 (Hive 0.12 with Drill is not supported any more) 

  * Improved performance when querying Hive tables and File system through partition pruning

  * Improved performance for HBase with LIKE operator pushdown

  * Improved memory management

  * Drill web UI monitoring and query profile improvements

  * Ability to parse files without explicit extensions using default storage format specification

  * Fixes for dealing with complex/nested data objects in Parquet/JSON

  * Fast schema return - Improved experience working with BI/query tools by returning metadata quickly

  * Several hang related fixes

  * Parquet writer fixes for handling large datasets

  * Stability improvements in ODBC and JDBC drivers

### Apache Drill 0.7.0 Key Notes and Limitations

  * The current release supports in-memory and beyond-memory execution. However, you must disable memory-intensive hash aggregate and hash join operations to leverage this functionality.
  * While the Drill execution engine supports dynamic schema changes during the course of a query, some operators have yet to implement support for this behavior, such as Sort. Other operations, such as streaming aggregate, may have partial support that leads to unexpected results.

## Apache Drill 0.6.0 Release Notes

Apache Drill 0.6.0, the second beta release for Drill, is designed to help
enthusiasts start working and experimenting with Drill. It also continues the
Drill monthly release cycle as we drive towards general availability.

This release is available as [binary](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/inc
ubator/drill/drill-0.5.0-incubating/apache-drill-0.5.0-incubating.tar.gz) and 
[source](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/incubator/drill/drill-0.5.0-incu
bating/apache-drill-0.5.0-incubating-src.tar.gz) tarballs that are compiled
against Apache Hadoop. Drill has been tested against MapR, Cloudera, and
Hortonworks Hadoop distributions. There are associated build profiles and
JIRAs that can help you run Drill against your preferred distribution.

### Apache Drill 0.6.0 Key Features

This release is primarily a bug fix release, with [more than 30 JIRAs closed](
https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12313820&vers
ion=12327472), but there are some notable features:

  * Direct ANSI SQL access to MongoDB, using the latest [MongoDB Plugin for Apache Drill](/drill/docs/mongodb-plugin-for-apache-drill)
  * Filesystem query performance improvements with partition pruning
  * Ability to use the file system as a persistent store for query profiles and diagnostic information
  * Window function support (alpha)

### Apache Drill 0.6.0 Key Notes and Limitations

  * The current release supports in-memory and beyond-memory execution. However, you must disable memory-intensive hash aggregate and hash join operations to leverage this functionality.
  * While the Drill execution engine supports dynamic schema changes during the course of a query, some operators have yet to implement support for this behavior, such as Sort. Other operations, such as streaming aggregate, may have partial support that leads to unexpected results.

## Apache Drill 0.5.0 Release Notes

Apache Drill 0.5.0, the first beta release for Drill, is designed to help
enthusiasts start working and experimenting with Drill. It also continues the
Drill monthly release cycle as we drive towards general availability.

The 0.5.0 release is primarily a bug fix release, with [more than 100 JIRAs](h
ttps://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12313820&versi
on=12324880) closed, but there are some notable features. For information
about the features, see the [Apache Drill Blog for the 0.5.0
release](https://blogs.apache.org/drill/entry/apache_drill_beta_release_see).

This release is available as [binary](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/inc
ubator/drill/drill-0.5.0-incubating/apache-drill-0.5.0-incubating.tar.gz) and 
[source](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/incubator/drill/drill-0.5.0-incu
bating/apache-drill-0.5.0-incubating-src.tar.gz) tarballs that are compiled
against Apache Hadoop. Drill has been tested against MapR, Cloudera, and
Hortonworks Hadoop distributions. There are associated build profiles and
JIRAs that can help you run Drill against your preferred distribution.

### Apache Drill 0.5.0 Key Notes and Limitations

  * The current release supports in memory and beyond memory execution. However, you must disable memory-intensive hash aggregate and hash join operations to leverage this functionality.
  * While the Drill execution engine supports dynamic schema changes during the course of a query, some operators have yet to implement support for this behavior, such as Sort. Others operations, such as streaming aggregate, may have partial support that leads to unexpected results.
  * There are known issues with joining text files without using an intervening view. See [DRILL-1401](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/DRILL-1401) for more information.

## Apache Drill 0.4.0 Release Notes

The 0.4.0 release is a developer preview release, designed to help enthusiasts
start to work with and experiment with Drill. It is the first Drill release
that provides distributed query execution.

This release is built upon [more than 800
JIRAs](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/DRILL/fixforversion/12324963/).
It is a pre-beta release on the way towards Drill. As a developer snapshot,
the release contains a large number of outstanding bugs that will make some
use cases challenging. Feel free to consult outstanding issues [targeted for
the 0.5.0
release](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/DRILL/fixforversion/12324880/)
to see whether your use case is affected.

To read more about this release and new features introduced, please view the
[0.4.0 announcement blog
entry](https://blogs.apache.org/drill/entry/announcing_apache_drill_0_4).

The release is available as both [binary](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi
/incubator/drill/drill-0.4.0-incubating/apache-drill-0.4.0-incubating.tar.gz)
and [source](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/incubator/drill/drill-0.4.0-
incubating/apache-drill-0.4.0-incubating-src.tar.gz) tarballs. In both cases,
these are compiled against Apache Hadoop. Drill has also been tested against
MapR, Cloudera and Hortonworks Hadoop distributions and there are associated
build profiles or JIRAs that can help you run against your preferred
distribution.

### Some Key Notes & Limitations

  * The current release supports in memory and beyond memory execution. However, users must disable memory-intensive hash aggregate and hash join operations to leverage this functionality.
  * In many cases,merge join operations return incorrect results.
  * Use of a local filter in a join “on” clause when using left, right or full outer joins may result in incorrect results.
  * Because of known memory leaks and memory overrun issues you may need more memory and you may need to restart the system in some cases.
  * Some types of complex expressions, especially those involving empty arrays may fail or return incorrect results.
  * While the Drill execution engine supports dynamic schema changes during the course of a query, some operators have yet to implement support for this behavior (such as Sort). Others operations (such as streaming aggregate) may have partial support that leads to unexpected results.
  * Protobuf, UDF, query plan interfaces and all interfaces are subject to change in incompatible ways.
  * Multiplication of some types of DECIMAL(28+,*) will return incorrect result.

## Apache Drill M1 -- Release Notes (Apache Drill Alpha)

### Milestone 1 Goals

The first release of Apache Drill is designed as a technology preview for
people to better understand the architecture and vision. It is a functional
release tying to piece together the key components of a next generation MPP
query engine. It is designed to allow milestone 2 (M2) to focus on
architectural analysis and performance optimization.

  * Provide a new optimistic DAG execution engine for data analysis
  * Build a new columnar shredded in-memory format and execution model that minimizes data serialization/deserialization costs and operator complexity
  * Provide a model for runtime generated functions and relational operators that minimizes complexity and maximizes performance
  * Support queries against columnar on disk format (Parquet) and JSON
  * Support the most common set of standard SQL read-only phrases using ANSI standards. Includes: SELECT, FROM, WHERE, HAVING, ORDER, GROUP BY, IN, DISTINCT, LEFT JOIN, RIGHT JOIN, INNER JOIN
  * Support schema-on-read querying and execution
  * Build a set of columnar operation primitives including Merge Join, Sort, Streaming Aggregate, Filter, Selection Vector removal.
  * Support unlimited level of subqueries and correlated subqueries
  * Provided an extensible query-language agnostic JSON-base logical data flow syntax.
  * Support complex data type manipulation via logical plan operations

### Known Issues

SQL Parsing  
Because Apache Drill is built to support late-bound changing schemas while SQL
is statically typed, there are couple of special requirements that are
required writing SQL queries. These are limited to the current release and
will be correct in a future milestone release.

  * All tables are exposed as a single map field that contains
  * Drill Alpha doesn't support implicit or explicit casts outside those required above.
  * Drill Alpha does not include, there are currently a couple of differences for how to write a query in In order to query against

### UDFs

  * Drill currently supports simple and aggregate functions using scalar, repeated and
  * Nested data support incomplete. Drill Alpha supports nested data structures as well repeated fields. However,
  * asd

