---
layout: post
title: "Drill 1.11 Released"
code: drill-1.11-released
excerpt: Apache Drill 1.11's highlights are&#58; Cryptography-related functions, spill to disk for the hash aggregate operator, Format plugin support for PCAP files, ability to change the HDFS block Size for Parquet files, ability to store query profiles in memory, configurable CTAS directory and file permissions option, support for network encryption, relative paths stored in the metadata file, and support for ANSI_QUOTES.
authors: ["bbevens"]
---

Today, we're happy to announce the availability of Drill 1.11.0. You can download it [here](https://drill.apache.org/download/).

The release provides the following bug fixes and improvements:

## Cryptography-Related Functions (DRILL-5634)
Drill provides the following cryptographic-related functions:

- aes_encrypt()
- aes_decrypt()
- md5()
- sha()
- sha1()
- sha2()  

## Spill to Disk for Hash Aggregate Operator (DRILL-5457)  
The Hash aggregate operator can spill data to disk in cases where the operation exceeds the set memory limit.   

## Format Plugin Support for PCAP Files (DRILL-5432)  
A “pcap” format plugin enables Drill to read PCAP files. You must add the “pcap” format to the dfs storage plugin configuration, as shown:  

       "pcap": {
              "type": "pcap",
              "extensions": [
                "pcap"
              ]
            }   

## Change the HDFS Block Size for Parquet Files (DRILL-5379)  
The `store.parquet.writer.use_single_fs_block` option enables Drill to write a Parquet file as a single file system block without changing the file system default block size.

## Store Query Profiles in Memory (DRILL-5481)  
The `drill.exec.profiles.store.inmemory` option enables Drill to store query profiles in memory instead of writing the query profiles to disk. The `drill.exec.profiles.store.capacity` option sets the maximum number of most recent profiles to retain in memory.  

## Configurable CTAS Directory and File Permissions Option (DRILL-5391)  
You can use the `exec.persistent_table.umask` configuration option, at the system or session level, to modify permissions on directories and files that result from running the CTAS command. By default, the option is set to 002, which sets the default directory permissions to 775 and default file permissions to -664.   

## Support for Network Encryption (DRILL-4335)  
Drill can use SASL to support network encryption between the Drill client and drillbits, and also between drillbits.  

## Metadata file Stores Relative Paths (DRILL-3867)  
Drill now stores the relative path in the metadata file (versus the absolute path), which enables you to move partitioned Parquet directories from one location in DFS to another without having to rebuild the Parquet metadata files; the metadata remains valid in the new location.  

## Support for ANSI_QUOTES (DRILL-3510)  
In addition to back ticks, the SQL parser in Drill can use double quotes as identifier quotes. Use the `planner.parser.quoting_identifiers` configuration option, at the system or session level, to set the type of identifier quotes that the SQL parser in Drill uses.  

You can find a complete list of JIRAs resolved in the 1.11.0 release [here](https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12313820&version=12339943).

