---
layout: post
title: "Drill 1.14 Released"
code: drill-1.14-released
excerpt: Apache Drill 1.14's highlights are&#58; Ability to run Drill in a Docker container, ability to export and save storage plugin configurations, a storage plugin configuration file to manage storage plugin configurations, an image metadata format plugin, option to set Hive properties at the session level, and more.
authors: ["bbevens"]
---

Today, we're happy to announce the availability of Drill 1.14.0. You can download it [here](https://drill.apache.org/download/).

The release provides the following bug fixes and improvements:

## Run Drill in a Docker Container (DRILL-6346)  
Running Drill in a Docker container is the simplest way to start using Drill; all you need is the Docker client installed on your machine. You simply run a Docker command, and your Docker client downloads the Drill Docker image from the apache-drill repository on Docker Hub and then brings up a container with Apache Drill running in embedded mode. See [Running Drill on Docker]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/running-drill-on-docker/).  

## Export and Save Storage Plugin Configurations (DRILL-4580)  
You can export and save your storage plugin configurations from the Storage page in the Drill Web UI. See [Exporting Storage Plugin Configurations]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuring-storage-plugins/#exporting-storage-plugin-configurations).  

## Manage Storage Plugin Configurations in a Configuration File (DRILL-6494)  
You can manage storage plugin configurations in the Drill configuration file,  storage-plugins-override.conf. When you provide the storage plugin configurations in the storage-plugins-override.conf file, Drill reads the file and configures the plugins during start-up. See [Configuring Storage Plugins with the storage-plugins-override.conf File](https://drill.apache.org/docs/configuring-storage-plugins/#configuring-storage-plugins-with-the-storage-plugins-override.conf-file).  

## Query Metadata in Various Image Formats (DRILL-4364)  
The metadata format plugin is useful for querying a large number of image files stored in a distributed file system. You do not have to build a metadata repository in advance.  
See [Image Metadata Format Plugin]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/image-metadata-format-plugin/).  

## Set Hive Properties at the Session Level (DRILL-6575)  
The store.hive.conf.properties option enables you to specify Hive properties at the session level using the SET command. See [Setting Hive Properties]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/hive-storage-plugin/#setting-hive-properties).   

 
You can find a complete list of JIRAs resolved in the 1.14.0 release [here]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/apache-drill-1-14-0-release-notes/).

