---
layout: post
title: "Drill 1.15 Released"
code: drill-1.15-released
excerpt: Apache Drill 1.15's highlights are&#58; SQLLine upgrade, index support, ability to secure znodes with custom ACLs, INFORMATION_SCHEMA files table, systemfunctions table, and more.
authors: ["bbevens"]
---

Today, we're happy to announce the availability of Drill 1.15.0. You can download it [here](https://drill.apache.org/download/).

The release provides the following bug fixes and improvements:

## SQLLine upgrade to 1.6 (DRILL-3853)
An upgrade to SQLLine 1.6 includes additional commands and the ability to add a custom SQLLine configuration. See [Configuring the Drill Shell]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuring-the-drill-shell/).


## Index support (DRILL-6381)  
Drill can leverage indexes (primary or secondary) in data sources to create index-based query plans. An index-based query plan leverages indexes to access date instead of full table scans. Currently, Drill only supports indexes for the MapR-DB storage plugin. See [Querying Indexes]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/querying-indexes/).


## Ability to create custom ACLs to secure znodes (DRILL-5671)  
Drill uses ZooKeeper to store certain cluster-level configuration and query profile information in znodes. A znode is an internal data tree in ZooKeeper that stores coordination and execution related information. Starting in Drill 1.15, you can create a custom ACL (Access Control List) on the znodes to secure data. See [Configuring Custom ACLs to Secure znodes]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuring-custom-acls-to-secure-znodes/).


## INFORMATION_SCHEMA FILES table (DRILL-6680)
The INFORMATION_SCHEMA contains a FILES table that you can query for information about directories and files stored in the workspaces configured within your S3 and file system storage plugin configurations. See [INFORMATION_SCHEMA](https://drill.apache.org/docs/querying-the-information-schema/#files). 

## System functions table (DRILL-3988)  
You can query the system functions table exposes the available SQL functions in Drill and also detects UDFs that have been dynamically loaded into Drill. See [Querying the functions table](https://drill.apache.org/docs/querying-system-tables/#querying-the-functions-table).  
  
   

 
You can find a complete list of improvements and JIRAs resolved in the 1.15.0 release [here]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/apache-drill-1-15-0-release-notes/).

