---
layout: post
title: "Drill 1.13 Released"
code: drill-1.13-released
excerpt: Apache Drill 1.13's highlights are&#58; YARN support, support for HTTP Kerberos authentication using SPNEGO, SQL syntax highlighting of queries, and user and distribution specific configuration checks during startup.
authors: ["bbevens"]
---

Today, we're happy to announce the availability of Drill 1.13.0. You can download it [here](https://drill.apache.org/download/).

The release provides the following bug fixes and improvements:

## Ability to Run Drill Under YARN (DRILL-1170)
You can run Drill as a YARN application ([Drill-on-YARN]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/drill-on-yarn/)) if you want Drill to work alongside other applications, such as Hadoop and Spark, in a YARN-managed cluster. YARN assigns resources, such as memory and CPU, to applications in the cluster and eliminates the manual steps associated with installation and resource allocation for stand-alone applications in a multi-tenant environment. YARN automatically deploys (localizes) the Drill software onto each Drill node and manages the Drill cluster. Drill becomes a long-running application with YARN. You can monitor the Drill-on-YARN cluster using the Application Master web UI.



## SPNEGO Support (DRILL-5425)

You can use SPNEGO to extend Kerberos authentication to Web applications through HTTP. 

## SQL Syntax Support (DRILL-5868)   
Query syntax appears highlighted in the Drill Web Console. In addition to syntax highlighting, auto-complete is supported in all SQL editors, including the Edit Query tab within an existing profile to rerun the query. For browsers like Chrome, you can type Ctrl+Space for a drop-down list and then use arrow keys for navigating through options. An auto-complete feature that specifies Drill keywords and functions, and the ability to write SQL from templates using snippets. 


## User/Distribution-Specific Configuration Checks During Startup (DRILL-5741) 

 You can define the maximum amount of cumulative memory allocated to the Drill process during startup through the `DRILLBIT_MAX_PROC_MEM` environment variable. For example, if you set `DRILLBIT_MAX_PROC_MEM to 40G`, the total amount of memory allocated to the following memory parameters cannot exceed 40G:  

- `DRILL_HEAP=8G ` 
- `DRILL_MAX_DIRECT_MEMORY=10G`  
- `DRILLBIT_CODE_CACHE_SIZE=1024M`

At startup, an auto-setup.sh script performs a check to see if these memory parameters are declared. If the parameters are declared, the script performs a check to verify that the cumulative memory of the parameters does not exceed the value specified by `DRILLBIT_MAX_PROC_MEM`. If the cumulative memory exceeds the total amount of memory defined by `DRILLBIT_MAX_PROC_MEM`, Drill returns an error message with instructions.


 
You can find a complete list of JIRAs resolved in the 1.13.0 release [here]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/apache-drill-1-13-0-release-notes/).

